Authentication Bypass
Authentication bypass is a classic example
of exploiting a
SQL injection vulnerability
that demonstrates the dangers of
evil users playing with your database.
Consider the code sample
in the previous section.
If we are able to inject our own
code into the SQL statement,
how might we alter the query in our favor?
Here is the normal use case:
a legitimate user submits their username
and password to the application.
The application queries the
database using those values.
The SQL statement uses an and
logical operator in the where clause.
Therefore, the database
will only return records
that have a user with a given
username and matching password.
A SQL query for a normal login, then,
looks like this:
If we control the value
being passed in as $user,
we can subvert the logic
of the query like this:
The pound character is a comment
marker in MySQL/MariaDB.
It effectively removes
the rest of the statement,
so we’re left with this:
We can paraphrase this as
“show me all columns and rows
for users with a name of tom
or where one equals one”.
Since the “1=1” condition
always evaluates to true,
all rows will be returned.
In short, by introducing the or clause
and the “1=1” condition,
this statement will return all
records in the users table,
creating a valid “password check”.
Is this enough to bypass authentication?
It depends.
We have manipulated the query to
return all the records in the users table.
The application code determines
what happens next.
Some programming languages have functions
that query the database and
expect a single record in return.
If these functions get
more than one row,
they will generate an error.
Other functions might process
multiple rows just fine.
We can’t know what to expect without
the application’s source code
or using trial and error.
If we do encounter errors when our
payload is returning multiple rows,
we can instruct the query to
return a fixed number of records
with the LIMIT statement:
Now let’s try this against
our sample application
and attempt to log in
without valid credentials.
We should be able to trick the application
into letting us in without a password
by including the “or 1=1 LIMIT 1;” clause
and commenting out the rest of the query.
We don’t know exactly
what the query looks like,
but the “or” clause will evaluate to true
and therefore cause the
query to return records.
We will include the “LIMIT”
clause to keep it simple
and only return one record.
If we’ve manipulated
the query successfully,
we should get a valid
authenticated session.
Nice.
We’ve bypassed this application’s login!
Let’s examine the source code so we fully
understand what is happening here.
On line 16, the values of the
username and password parameters
submitted via POST are
directly added to the string
containing the SQL query.
Normally, the query would only
return results when a valid username
and associated password are submitted.
Our SQL injection payload “escapes”
out of the intended query
and injects an “OR” clause,
which causes the query to return rows
even if the username
and password aren’t correct.
Line 22 checks if the
query result is one row.
If an invalid username or
password is submitted,
the query wouldn’t return any rows.
If a valid username and
password are submitted,
the query would return one row.
The application’s developer
assumed this was enough
to determine if a user
should be authenticated
as line 23 stores the
user’s name in session state
and line 24 redirects
the user to admin.php.
We had to include the “LIMIT”
clause to deal with the check on line 22.
Attackers wouldn’t necessarily know
this without seeing the source code,
which is why experimentation is
very important in black box testing.